### 8.0 Benefit and Summary of Proposed System
<br>
<br>
LibraSync is a system designed by us to streamline library operations, the system will make the tasks such as book borrowing, return and availability checks faster and more efficient. This system is built because there are numerous students complaining about their dissatisfaction with the existing library system. Therefore, LibraSync addresses these concerns by prioritizing user experience.
<br>
<br>
Our proposed system offers many benefits. Firstly, the implementation of search filters with additional features such as publication date and language. This will ensure students can find their desired resources more effectively. Moreover, the automated check-in and check-out system will reduce the time needed for manual book processing and enhance the overall processes efficiency. For the staff, they would also be capable of multitasking, not only focused on dealing with the repetitive tasks of processing loaning and returning requests from students behind desks. Next, the third benefit will be the increased accessibility of the system as it will make it easier for users to find the book they want as there are more choices available to search resources in detail. This will save users time, as they could know the availability of the book in advance through the online system. Furthermore, the automatic process for the addition, update and removal of records is using a strong database which means that the possibility of data inaccuracy is very low. Besides, the strong security of the system can help to protect user data as we are doing data backups and prevent unauthorized access. If there is an incident of data loss caused by the staff, we could recover the data.
<br>
<br>
Overall, LibraSync offers a user-friendly, efficient and secure library system which enhances the overall user experience. With streamlined processes, advanced search capabilities, and robust security measures, LibraSync sets a new standard for library management systems that ensures user’s satisfaction and peace of mind. In order to get the ideal system, the timeline of the proposed development is estimated to be complete within 47 weeks. The allocated budget for the project is RM 92140.66. Besides, based on the PI value calculated by our system analyst, we are pleased to inform you that there will be benefits to using the proposed system as the PI value is more than one.

