## 3.0 Problem Statement

### 1. Poor search functionality
Students are having difficulties when searching for books as the system is restricted to searching by book’s title and author only. Students have to search through physical shelves because most of the time they only remember partial information about the book such as the author or some keywords from the title. Students are unable to locate the book and have no idea if books have been borrowed. This would be time-consuming and tiresome. It is also inefficient in processing borrowed and returned books when many students are waiting because it is required to enter the whole title of the books every time.
 
### 2. Data errors
As students’ numbers are increasing each year, there will be large volumes of data. The system check-in and check-out book manually increases the risk of data errors. Students found that sometimes there exists duplicate records like both students having records for the same book at the same time which is confusing. Secondly, there is incorrect information on some books such as incorrect titles, authors, publishers and editions. It will mislead the availability status of a book. Students get frustrated when they think that the book can be borrowed immediately but it is checked out. Furthermore, the data errors are also shown in the loan records. The most frequent happening is flagging the overdue book inaccurately. The book that was returned showed overdue and charged fines to students.
 
### 3. Uncertainty in the availability status of books
Students have to visit the library physically to check the availability of desired books.     If the books are checked out, students have to visit the library another time to get them. Students who want to borrow a popular book might have to depend on luck which is unfair due to the first come first serve basis. This is because students are unable to keep track of the books or make reservations. While most of the students are busy attending classes and involved in activities, they will not have much time to visit the library frequently. Moreover, if students need books for research and studies, there might be a delay in their progress. The difficulties in accessing desired books prevent students from utilizing the library’s resources effectively.
 
### 4. Difficulty in updating information about students and books
Library staff are responsible for updating all information about students and books. As more students join and more books are added, they find that it is getting harder to manage everything manually. Every semester they have to enter information about new students and remove graduate students from the system which requires a lot of human labour. Besides, staff are having challenges in managing book inventory, it is not just about key in new book details, they are required to update when books are lost, damaged or replaced by new editions. Furthermore, each change must be made carefully to ensure the accuracy of the library’s records.
 
### 5. Data Loss
As the current library management system does not support data backup, library staff are having difficulties in handling data loss. It happens due to various reasons including accidental deletion. When data is deleted from the system, it is permanently removed and cannot be discovered. Staff have to re-enter the lost information such as students' records and book information. Additionally, any changes or updates made to the system are irreversible. Data loss is affecting every process in the library management system and thus impacts the reputation of the library.
